# Node Angular Starter

I created this as a base for any project that uses an AngularJS frontend and a Node.js / Express backend.

The main goal of this project is to employ a build process that functions elegantly in development without getting in the way and then smoothly transitions into a tightly packed and efficient production package.

The other goal of this project is to structure application source files in a logical and organized way.

I will discuss the means to these goals further in the sections below.

## Setup

### Initial Steps

Install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/).

Install [Bower](http://bower.io/) and [Gulp](http://gulpjs.com/) globally:

```sh
$ sudo npm -g install bower gulp
```

Clone the Git repository and install the dependencies:

```sh
$ git clone git://github.com/kylepixel/node-angular-starter
$ cd node-angular-starter
$ npm install
$ bower install
```

Now everything's set up and ready to go. Read on for how to build the project and run the server.

### Build Process

This project uses Gulp for its build process and has a number of Gulp tasks available.

The compile task will build the project for production. This means concatenating and minifying all source files into a single JS file and a single CSS file, as well as compressing image assets. The default Gulp task also runs the compile task and is exactly equivalent:

```sh
$ gulp compile
```
```sh
$ gulp
```

The build task will build the project for development. This means that all files will be kept separate (CSS is a special case and will be concatenated into a single file) and will remain untouched for a quick build and easy debugging and analysis:

```sh
$ gulp build
```

The watch task will run the build task and then watch the application files for changes. Whenever changes are made, the build files will be updated appropriately and live reload will be triggered:

```sh
$ gulp watch
```

The serve task will run the watch task. It will also start the server in development mode on the default port (defined in `package.json`) and then watch the server files for changes. Whenever changes are made, the server will restart itself and live reload will be triggered:

```sh
$ gulp serve
```

//TODO: explanation of when to use these commands?

### Running the Server

The server can be started manually with the following command:

```sh
$ npm start [--dev] [--port=<port>]
```

If the `--dev` flag is included, the server will be started in development mode and will serve files generated by the `gulp build` command which are in the `/build` directory by default. If the flag is not included, the server will start in production mode and will serve files generated by the `gulp compile` command which are in the `/dist` directory by default.

If the `--port` flag is included with a valid port number, the server will be started on the specified port. Otherwise, it will start on the default port which is defined in the config section of `package.json`.

## Directory Structure

//TODO

```
node-angular-starter/
  |- src/
  |  |- assets/
  |  |  |- <static files>
  |  |- components/
  |  |  |- <reusable code>
  |  |- states/
  |  |  |- <app logic>
  |  |- app.js
  |  |- app.less
  |  |- index.html
  |- server/
  |  |- server.js
  |- .jshintrc
  |- bower.json
  |- build.config.js
  |- gulpfile.js
  |- package.json
```

//TODO

### Live Reload

`node-angular-starter` also includes [Live Reload](http://livereload.com/). Download the addon for your browser at the following locations:

- Chrome - [Chrome Webstore](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/livereload/jnihajbhpnppcggbcgedagnkighmdlei)
- Firefox - [Download from Live Reload](http://download.livereload.com/2.0.8/LiveReload-2.0.8.xpi)
- Safari - [Download from Live Reload](http://download.livereload.com/2.0.9/LiveReload-2.0.9.safariextz)
- Internet Explorer - N/A

When you load your page, click the Live Reload icon in your toolbar and
everything should work.

## Making Changes

### Notes

//- new bower file, add to vendor_files on build.config.js
//- all LESS files derived from source_files.less.entry, anything not here or imported will not be included
//- module dependencies are important

### Build Configuration

The `build.config.js` file in the project root contains configurable properties that are used in the project's build process. These properties will be reviewed here.

`vendor_dir`: The directory in whic
`vendor_files`: .

`build_dir`: 
`compile_dir`: 